---
title: "A Workflow Scheduling Approach
with Modified Fuzzy Adaptive Genetic Algorithm in IaaS Clouds, IEEE Transactions on Services
Computing" 
date: 2022-05-10
url: /3/
tags: ["Cost", "Task analysis", "Schedules", "Genetic algorithms", "Heuristic algorithms", "Optimization", "Quality of service"] 
author: ["Naela Rizvi","Dharavath Ramesh", "Lipo Wang", "B Annappa"]
description: "This paper proposes a matching model of the labor market with job rationing: unemployment does not disappear in the absence of matching frictions." 
summary: "This paper proposes a matching model of the labor market with job rationing: unemployment does not disappear in the absence of matching frictions. In recessions, job rationing drives the rise in unemployment, whereas matching frictions contribute little to unemployment." 

editPost:
    URL: "https://doi.org/10.1109/TSC.2022.3174112"
    Text: "IEEE"

---

<!-- ---

##### Download

+ [Paper](/1.pdf)
+ [Online appendix](/1a.pdf)
+ [Code and data](https://github.com/pmichaillat/job-rationing) -->

---

##### Abstract

The emergence of the cloud platform with substantial resources to offer on-demand instigated the researchers to migrate the scientific workflows to the cloud environment. The scheduling of workflows with diverse QoS parameters is not a trivial task, but an NP-Complete problem. Several heuristics for QoS constrained workflows have been investigated. However, most of them focus only on time and cost and do not guarantee high resource utilization. The scheduling of the workflow tasks over the minimum cloud resources under the defined time limit is a grave concern. In this article, an algorithm named MFGA (Modified Fuzzy Adaptive Genetic Algorithm) has been formulated to minimize the makespan and improve resource utilization under both deadline and budget constraints. A fuzzy logic controller has also been devised to control the crossover and mutation rates that prevent MFGA from getting stuck in a local optimum. MFGA has a novel crossover technique that adds the fittest solutions in the population. Additionally, a new mutation technique has also been introduced, which minimizes the makespan and increases the reusability of the resources. The simulation experiments with the real workflows show that the proposed MFGA outperforms other state-of-the-art algorithms.


